Emacs Key Bindings

Emacs is an interactive, customizable, richly featured code editor that is popular among many programmers, especially UNIX programmers. Project Builder's code editor incorporates many common Emacs commands.

You issue Emacs commands with the Control key (Ctl) or the Escape (Esc) key, but how you give the command differs with each key. You press the Control key just before the character key, and keep pressing them together. For Escape commands, press the Escape key first, then press the character key. Also, some commands begin with Control-x and are followed by a separate key press. The separation of the final character in Control-x and Escape commands is represented by a space.

Notes: 

·	On OpenStep for Windows, many Emacs key bindings conflict with the standard bindings for Control keys on Windows applications (for example, Ctl-v is scroll forward in Emacs but is Paste in Windows). Windows key binding override any corresponding Emacs key bindings.

·	To use the Emacs commands that begin with the Escape key (Esc), you must select the ªAct as Emacs Meta keyº option in the Key Bindings preferences display. 

Moving Around


Command	What It Does

Ctl-f	Move forward one character

Ctl-b	Move backward one character

Esc f	Move forward one word

Esc b	Move backward one word

Ctl-n	Move to the next line

Ctl-p	Move to the previous line

Ctl-e	Move to the end of the line

Ctl-a	Move to the beginning of the line

Ctl-v	Scroll foward a ªpageº

Esc v	Scroll backward a ªpageº

Esc >	Go to the end of the edited file

Esc <	Go to the beginning of the edited file

Ctl-l	Center cursor in middle of displayed code

Ctl-x Ctl-x	Exchange point and mark (return to mark)

Ctl-s	Search forward incrementally

Ctl-r	Search backward incrementally

Editing, Deleting, and Copying


Command	What It Does

Ctl-d	Delete character under cursor

Ctl-k	Delete (kill) to end of line

Ctl-y	Paste (yank) contents of kill buffer

Esc-d	Delete next word or to end of current word

Esc-Del	Delete previous word

Ctl-x u	Undo last change (applies successive undos)

Ctl-i	Indent line

Esc w 	Copy region

Esc y	Yank-pop: paste previously cut text in kill buffer

Files and Views (Buffers)


Command	What It Does

Ctl-x 2	Split current view into two views (Split command)

Ctl-x 1	Make one view (Maximize command)

Ctl-x o	Edit in other view

Ctl-x Ctl-b	Open Loaded Files panel

Ctl-x b	Next loaded file

Ctl-x Ctl-f	Display Open Quickly panel

Ctl-x Ctl-s	Save current view to file

Ctl-x Ctl-w	Write to file (Save As)

Ctl-x s	Save all loaded files

Ctl-x i 	Insert file

Ctl-x k	Close current file

Miscellaneous


Command	What It Does

Ctl-x space	Sets a mark which, with point, marks a region.

Ctl-x `	Go to next error (as displayed in Build panel exception browser)

Ctl-x p 	Go to previous error

Esc .	Find definition of current symbol using Project Find panel (as identified by location of cursor)

Ctl-q	Quote next character (for example, a control sequence)

Ctl-g	Quit current command
